what you need when you're cooking pasta
is eight minutes or spaghetti anyway
eight minutes because that's another
point where people go wrong is they cook
it far too long and lots of packets it
says 15 even up to 20 minutes I've seen
it and it really isn't very nice if it's
overcooked and soggy now what the
Italians describe perfectly cooked pasta
the words they use are al dente and that
means to the teeth or what I would call
having some bite to it and for spaghetti
eight minutes gives you just that amount
of bite if you're cooking thicker strips
of pasta then you might need to give it
a minute or two more but eight minutes
is about right so just watch the time
carefully another thing is no need to
put the lid on the pan providing the
pasta is submerged under the water you
have no lead need to put the lid on
because otherwise with all that water it
will just boil over and although
spaghetti is very quick to cook you
could be spending quite a long time
cleaning the top of the cooker
afterwards well we've got some over here
and I've been timing that for eight
minutes but it's not quite ready yet so
I'm just going to have a word about
bolognaise sauce and this has been
cooking away here and this is a proper
homemade bolognaise sauce it's made with
onions garlic finely minced beef finely
minced chicken livers tomatoes and basil
and I hope you noticed that it's nice
and thick and that is the secret of a
good bolognese sauce it's got to be
really thick to really coat the
spaghetti and give it lots of flavor
sometimes in restaurants you get
spaghetti served up with something like
oxtail soup and mints in it it's really
rather nasty so I'm glad to be able to
show you the right sort of texture of a
good bolognese sauce well now this has
had its eight minutes just about now so
what we're going to do now is drain it
and have a colander ready waiting in the
sink and then just take the spaghetti
over turn the heat out take it over to
the sink and then just pour the water
into the colander and I should pour the
water in you'll find that the colander
will get nicely heated
then in goes the spaghetti take the
colander out and put it back on the
saucepan and then all the final
drainings will drip through into the
saucepan beneath and provide a little
bit of steam which keeps it hot and
that's a very important point when
you're serving spaghetti must keep it
nice and hot and that's why I'm going
over to the oven now to get some hot
plate so there's nothing worse than
eating spaghetti that's got sort of
tepid and I want to show you how to dish
it up because when I first started I got
in a muddle so what you do is you just
to give it a little bit of a mix like
that and then to serve it you lift it up
very very high that's the secret
if you lift it high it goes straight
over to the plate neatly and you don't
have any problems where people go wrong
is they get hold of it like this and
they try to get it out of the colander
onto the plate like that and then they
have to run and get the dressmaking
scissors or something to cut it all to
serve it so high onto the plate and it's
Watson odd bits left in the colander
just get those out with a spoon there we
are we've got one little escape bit
there next we need the sauce just spoon
the sauce over next thing you need is
some grated Parmesan cheese and I
thought I'd just show you this because
if you have got a specialized food shop
or an Italian shop in your area and you
can get Parmesan cheese in its natural
state and grate it yourself it does make
a tremendous difference but I warn you
that is quite hard to get hold on so
plenty of freshly grated Parmesan cheese
all over and you can put a bit more on
later and if you're like me you'll want
a good twist of pepper as well and now I
want to show you how to eat spaghetti
because I've seen a lot of people in a
lot of restaurants get into a muddle
so what you first of all do is take a
spoon and a fork
or just a fork and mix it and now you
can see why it's important to have a
nice thick sauce so that the spaghetti
gets perfectly coated and it's good to
take all those report earth precautions
because as you can see it's still nice
and hot
now this is where people go wrong you
can use a spoon and fork or just a fork
but what they do is they dig the fork in
like that lift it up and then they start
to twist and of course they get into a
frightful old muddle and who wouldn't so
what's the best thing to do is to take a
few strands not too many lift them up
and then take them to the edge of the
plate twist the fork round on the plate
or you can do this on a spoon and then
lift it up so that you've got a
bite-sized piece like that and don't
worry if you've got a couple of little
strands like that hanging down because
Italians always eat spaghetti with their
napkins tucked into their chins